
<!DOCTYPE html
  PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US"><head><title>Setting up Eclipse for the Java API of CPLEX</title><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="doc.css"/><script type="text/javascript" src="PLUGINS_ROOT/org.eclipse.help/livehelp.js"> </script>
<script language="JavaScript" src="../../../../../../../scriptsfiles/icscript.js"> </script>


<script type="text/javascript" src="../../../../../../../advanced/synchWithToc.js"> </script>

<link rel="stylesheet" href="../content/PLUGINS_ROOT/org.eclipse.help.webapp/advanced/breadcrumbs.css" charset="ISO-8859-1" type="text/css"></link>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../content/PLUGINS_ROOT/org.eclipse.help/livehelp.js"> </script>
<script type="text/javascript">if( self == top ){ window.location.replace( "../../../../../../../index.jsp?topic=%2Filog.odms.cplex.help%2FContent%2FOptimization%2FDocumentation%2FCPLEX%2F_pubskel%2FCPLEX19.html");}</script>
<script type="text/javascript">
<!--
if (parent.ContentToolbarFrame && parent.ContentToolbarFrame.setButtonState) parent.ContentToolbarFrame.setButtonState("toggle_highlight","hidden");
-->
</script>

</head><body>
<div class="help_breadcrumbs"><a href="../../../../../../../topic/ilog.odms.cplex.help/Content/Optimization/Documentation/CPLEX/_pubskel/CPLEX.html">CPLEX</a> > <a href="../../../../../../../topic/ilog.odms.cplex.help/Content/Optimization/Documentation/CPLEX/_pubskel/CPLEX3.html">Getting Started with CPLEX</a> > <a href="../../../../../../../topic/ilog.odms.cplex.help/Content/Optimization/Documentation/CPLEX/_pubskel/CPLEX16.html">Setting up CPLEX</a></div>
<div class="GettingStarted"><div class="header"><div class="content"><h1 class="heading">Setting up Eclipse for the Java API of CPLEX</h1></div></div><div class="content">




<div class="descriptiveTopicContent">
<div class="orderedlist"><div class="orderedlistIntro">
<div class="para">To make your Eclipse integrated development environment
aware of the Java API of CPLEX, follow these steps.</div>
</div><ol class="orderedlist"><li class="orderedlistItem"><div class="para">Create a new Java project, like this:</div>
<div class="para"><span class="guicommand">File &gt; New ... &gt; Java Project</span></div>
</li><li class="orderedlistItem"><div class="para">To include the CPLEX JAR in your project,
locate the libraries among the properties of the new project, like
this:</div><div class="para"><span class="guicommand">Project &gt; Properties &gt;
Java Build Path &gt; Libraries</span></div>
</li><li class="orderedlistItem"><div class="para">Click the button <span class="guicommand">Add
External JARs</span>.</div></li><li class="orderedlistItem"><div class="para">Select the file named <span class="filename">cplex.jar</span>.</div>
</li></ol></div>
<div class="tip"><div class="tipLabel">Tip</div>
<div class="para">Be sure to point to the CPLEX JAR, <span class="filename">cplex.jar</span>,
not simply the directory containing that file. Conventionally, the
CPLEX JAR is in the <span class="filename">lib</span> directory
of your CPLEX home, part of the installation of <span class="trademark">IBM®
            </span> ILOG CPLEX Optimization
Studio.</div>
</div>
<div class="para">After that procedure, you can create and compile your
source code making use of the Java API of CPLEX. </div>
<div class="orderedlist"><div class="orderedlistIntro">
<div class="para">Before you can run your compiled code, you must create
an appropriate <span class="bold">run configuration</span> in
Eclipse or modify an existing <span class="bold">run configuration</span> appropriately.
To do so, follow these steps.</div>
</div><ol class="orderedlist"><li class="orderedlistItem"><div class="para">Create a new run configuration or locate
an existing run configuration to modify, like this:</div>
<div class="para"><span class="bold">Run &gt; Run Configurations ... &gt;
Java Application</span></div>
</li><li class="orderedlistItem"><div class="para">When the dialog appears, go to the <span class="guicommand">Main</span> tab,
and select your <code class="code">main</code> class; that is, select
the class containing the <code class="code">main()</code> function
that you want to run.</div></li><li class="orderedlistItem"><div class="para">Go to the <span class="guicommand">Arguments</span> tab,
select <span class="guicommand">VM arguments</span>, and add
the path to the CPLEX library. The CPLEX library is conventionally
a DLL file on Windows or a .so file on UNIX or GNU/Linux, with an
indication of the version number in its name, like <span class="filename">cplexXX.dll</span> or <span class="filename">cplexXX.so</span> where
XX represents a version number of the product.</div>
<div class="tip"><div class="tipLabel">Tip</div>
<div class="para">Add the path to the directory or folder containing the
CPLEX library (<span class="bold">not</span> the name of
the file itself). </div>
</div>
<div class="para">For example, on UNIX or GNU/Linux , if the file <span class="filename">libcplexXX.so</span> is
located in the directory <span class="filename">COSinstallation/cplex/bin/myPlatform/myLibFormat</span> then
add a path similar to this example:</div>
<div class="para">       <code class="code">-Djava.library.path= COSinstallation/cplex/myPlatform/myLibFormat</code> 
  </div>
<div class="para">Similarly, on Windows, if the file <span class="filename">cplexXX.dll</span> is
located in the folder <span class="filename">COSinstallation\cplex\myPlatform\myLibFormat</span> then
add a path similar to this example:</div>
<div class="para">       <code class="code">-Djava.library.path=COSinstallation/cplex/myPlatform/myLibFormat</code> 
    </div>
</li><li class="orderedlistItem"><div class="para">If your edition of CPLEX requires a
license (for example, CPLEX as part of the <span class="trademark">IBM®
            </span> Academic Initiative), verify
that the environment variable <code class="code">ILOG_LICENSE_FILE</code> is
set correctly to the location of your license file for <span class="trademark">IBM®
            </span> ILOG CPLEX Optimization
Studio. If not, then locate the license file on your system. Next,
set that environment variable in Eclipse by going to the <span class="guicommand">Environment</span> tab
and adding a variable with the full path to the license file.</div>
<div class="tip"><div class="tipLabel">Tip</div>
<div class="para">The name of the license file is conventionally <span class="filename">access.ilm</span>.</div>
</div>
</li></ol></div>
<div class="para">After these steps, you can run your Java application
using CPLEX as you run other applications from Eclipse.</div>
</div>
<div class="eclipseRelatedLinks"><div class="eclipseRelatedLinksLabel">Current section</div><ul class="eclipseRelatedLinks"><li><a href="CPLEX16.html" class="bluelink">Setting up CPLEX</a></li></ul></div></div><div class="footer"><div class="content"><div class="navigation"><a href="CPLEX18.html" class="navigation"><span class="previous">PREVIOUS</span></a><span class="separator">&#160;&#160;</span><a href="CPLEX20.html" class="navigation"><span class="next">NEXT</span></a></div><div class="copyright">&#169; Copyright IBM Corp. 1987, 2010. <a href="CPLEX2.html" class="navigation"><span class="legalterms">Legal Terms</span></a></div></div></div></div></body></html>